Nested Queries Updates (#25124)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/dashboards/querying/_index.md

Additionally, you can click the tags in the metric dropdown used for [defining the metric](#define-the-metric) to group and aggregate your data. 

### Nested Queries

Add an additional layer of aggregation on results of an existing query in time and/or space using nested queries. We support: 

1. Multilayer aggregation (additional time/space aggregatinos) supported via the JSON tab or via API* (Dashboards only)
2. Percentiles on counts/rates/gauges via the JSON tab or via API* (Dashboards only)
3. Standard deviation on counts/rates/gauges via the JSON tab or via API* (Dashboards only)
4. Higher resultion queries over historical timeframes

> _* Every [metrics query][17] in Datadog is evaluated with two layers of aggregation: first Time then Space. Multilayer aggregation applies additional layers of aggregations._

Author: Sorry, are you referring to the "every metrics query in Datadog is evaluated with two layers of aggregations..." ?

> _* Every [metrics query][17] in Datadog is evaluated with two layers of aggregation: first Time then Space. Multilayer aggregation applies additional layers of aggregations._

Reviewer: I guess I'm confused why this note is in this section instead of the multilayer section right below?

Multilayer Time aggregation can be expressed with `rollup`. The first `rollup` applied to a query will always determine its base level precision and aggregation as documented [here][19]. The first rollup supports the following aggregators:

- `avg`
- `sum`
- `min`
- `max`
- `count`

Additional layers of time aggregation support the following aggregators: 

- `avg`
- `sum`
- `min`
- `max`
- `count`
- `arbitrary percentile pxx` (`p78, p99, p99.99, etc.`)
- `stddev`

This query calculates the 95th percentile of average CPU utilization for each EC2 instance grouped by environment and host, rolled up into 5-minute intervals, over the last 30 minutes.

```text
"rollup(avg:aws.ec2.cpuutilization{*} by {env,host}.rollup(avg, 300),'p95',1800)"
```

An example of how to express this query in the JSON (or API):

# {{< img src="/dashboards/querying/multilayer-time-agg-example.png" alt="example of multilayer time aggregation in the JSON" style="width:100%;" >}}

#### Multilayer space aggregation

Multilayer space aggregation is expressed with the name of the aggregator. 

Aggregators expressed by their aggregation name such as `max()`, `stddev()`, `sum()`, will only have one argument: 

> - The tag key(s) to group-by.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 
> ```text
> "sum(avg:aws.ec2.cpuutilization{*} by {env,host}.rollup(avg, 300),{env})"
> ```
> 
> Percentile space aggregations require two arguments:
> - The `percentile` aggregator in the form of `pxx`.
> - The tag key(s) to group-by.
> 
> ```text
> "percentile(avg:aws.ec2.cpuutilization{*} by {env,host}.rollup(avg, 300),'p95', {env})"
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
##### Example Queries

The following query calculates the sum of average CPU utilization, grouped by environment:

```text
sum(avg:aws.ec2.cpuutilization{*} by {env,host}.rollup(avg, 300),{env})
```

For percentile space aggregation, the following query calculates the 95th percentile of average CPU utilization, grouped by environment:

```text
percentile(avg:aws.ec2.cpuutilization{*} by {env,host}.rollup(avg, 300),'p95', {env})
```
````

> An example of how to express this query in the JSON (or API):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In JSON or API format, it would look as follows:
```

# {{< img src="/dashboards/querying/multilayer-space-agg-example.png" alt="example of multilayer space aggregation in the JSON" style="width:100%;" >}}

#### Percentiles

> Here's a query that calculates the 95th percentile of average CPU utilization for each EC2 instance grouped by environment and host, rolled up into 5-minute intervals, over the last 30 minutes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Percentile calculations allow for a deeper understanding of data distribution. Here's an example that calculates the 95th percentile of average CPU utilization, grouped by environment and host, rolled up into 5-minute intervals, over the last 30 minutes:
```

```text
"rollup(avg:aws.ec2.cpuutilization{*} by {env,host}.rollup(avg, 300),'p95',1800)"
```

> An example of how to express this query in the JSON (or API):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In JSON or API format:
```

# {{< img src="/dashboards/querying/nested-queries-percentiles-example.png" alt="example of percentiles  using nested queries in the JSON" style="width:100%;" >}}

#### Standard Deviation

> Here's a query that calculates the standard deviation of the sum of API request counts, averaged over 5-minute intervals and rolled up over 1-hour periods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Standard deviation helps measure the variability or dispersion of a dataset. The following query calculates the standard deviation of the sum of API request counts, averaged over 5-minute intervals, and rolled up over 1-hour periods:
```

```text
"rollup(sum:api.requests.count{*}.rollup(avg,300),'stddev',3600)"
```

> An example of how to express this query in the JSON (or API):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In JSON or API format:
```

# {{< img src="/dashboards/querying/nested-queries-standard-dev-example.png" alt="example of standard deviation with nested queries in the JSON" style="width:100%;" >}}

#### Higher Resolution Queries

> Here's a query that calculates the standard deviation of high-resolution metrics batch counts, with a 5-minute base and 4-hour reducer interval.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
High-resolution queries allow you to obtain more granular data over extended periods. Here's an example that calculates the standard deviation of high-resolution metrics batch counts, with a 5-minute base and a 4-hour reducer interval:
```

```text
"rollup(sum:dd.metrics.query.batch.count{*}.rollup(avg,300),`stddev`,14400)"
```

> An example of how to express this query in the JSON (or API):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In JSON or API format:
```
